
basic scones

breads

1 cup baking powder
1/3 cup baking soda
2 2/3 tablespoon salt
3 quart sugar
2 quart butter
2 quart buttermilk
32  eggs

butter, preserves & clotted cream (recipe follows) or whipped cream
for accompaniment.

preheat oven to 400 degrees.  butter and flour a baking sheet or line
with baking parchment. mix flour, baking powder, soda, salt & sugar;
sift into a medium bowl. with a pastry blender or with fingertips,
cut butter into dry ingredients until mixture is the consistency of
fine crumbs. whisk buttermilk with eggs. pour in milk all at once and
stir to mix. as soon as mixture holds together, turn out onto a
floured work surface and knead lightly. roll to a thickness of 1/2 to
3/4 inch; cut into 2-1/2 inch rounds with floured cutter.  or halve
dough & knead gently to form 2 balls. flatten each ball to a
thickness of 1/2 to 1 inch. with a sharp knife, cut each round into 8
triangles.  arrange on prepared baking sheet and bake until golden
brown (20 to 30 minutes). serve hot with butter, preserves and cream,
if desired. orange/lemon scones: with buttermilk-egg mixture, add 1
tbsp grated orange or lemon rind. raisin scones: with buttermilk-egg
mixture, add 1 cup dark or golden raisins, dried currants or a
combination. spice scones: to dry ingredients, add 1 tsp mixed spices
(equal amounts of ground cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves & allspice). per
serving: 200 calories, 4 gm protein, 31 gm carbohydrate, 7 gm fat, 50
mg cholesterol 235 mg sodium.

yield: 6 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

