
basic white bread (kh)

breads

5 1/2 to 6 cups flour
2 pkg active dry yeast
2 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
1 cup vvater
2 tablespoon oil
1 oil or butter

quick mix method

combine 2 cups flour, yeast, sugar, and salt in a large mixing bowl.
heat milk, water, and 2 tablespoons oil in a saucepan over low heat
until very warm (120 to 130f). add liquid to flour mixture; beat on
high speed of elec- tric mixer until smooth, about 3 minutes.
gradually stir in more flour to make a soft dough. tum onto lightly
floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic (5 to 10 minutes).
cover dough with bowl or pan; let rest 20 minutes. for two loaves,
divide dough in half and roll out two 14x7-inch rectangles; for one
loaf roll out to 16x8-inch rectangle. roll up from narrow side,
pressing dough into roll at each turn. press ends to seal and fold
under loaf. place in 2 greased 8x4x2-inch loaf pans or 1 greased
9x5x3-inch loaf pan; brush with oil. let rise in warm place until
double in bulk (30 to 45 minutes). bake at 400f 35 to 40 minutes.
remove from pans immediately and brush with oil; cool on wire rack.

conventional method

heat milk, sugar, oil, and salt; cool to lukewarm. in a large bowl,
sprinkle yeast in warm water (105 to 115f) stir until dissolved. add
lukewarm milk mixture and 2 cups flour; beat until smooth. beat in
enough additional flour to make a stiff dough. turn out onto lightly
floured surface; let rest 10 to 15 minutes. knead until smooth and
elastic (8 to 10 minutes). place in a greased bowl, turning to grease
top. cover; let rise in warm place until double in bulk (about 1
hour). punch down. let rest 15 minutes. follow same shaping and baking

instructions as quick mix method.

yield: 1 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

