
chapatis #3

breads, indian

1 1/2 cup flour, unbleached
1/2 cup flour, whole wheat
1 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoon ghee
1/2 cup water

mix flours, salt, and butter and add just enough water to make a firm
dough, somewhat like a biscuit dough. knead for 10-15 minutes - the
more the dough is kneaded, the lighter the bread will be. shape the
dough into a ball, cover with a sheet of plastic and let it rest for
at least 1 hour. if left to rest overnight in the refrigerator, the
finished bread will be even lighter.

when ready to bake, take a small piece of dough about the size of a
golf ball, or a bit smaller.  on a lightly floured board, roll the
dough into a thin circle, about 5 inches in diameter. repeat with all
the dough.

heat a griddle or heavy-bottomed iron skillet until it is very hot
(you will notice the smoke rising from it). place the rolled out
chapati on the griddle and let it cook for 2-3 minutes, depending on
how thin you have rolled it. using a pair of kitchen tongs, you can
lift the chapati to see if the underside has turned a golden brown.
flip, and cook the other side about 1 minute.

as they are cooked, store the chapatis on a towel in a warm covered
container until ready to serve.  serve as soon as the last chapati is
baked.

note: in india breads sometimes are baked in the fiery clay tandoor,
where they develop brown spots and bubbles. to achieve a similar
effect at home, you can use tongs to hold each chapati over a hot gas
flame until it puffs like a little balloon.  the chapati will
collapse as it cools.

the bombay palace cookbook stendhal per ellen cleary

yield: 10 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

