
corn tortillas/chips

breads, mexican

1 1/2 cup masa harina *
2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoon vegetable shortening
1 1/4 cup water

* masa harina -    a flour made from dried corn, which is combined
with liquid and used to make corn tortillas and tamales. masa harina
is available in many grocery stores and may be stored in an airtight
containers or in a freezer. in a medium bowl, stir together the masa
harina and salt.  in a small saucepan over high heat, bring the lard
of shortening and water to a boil and stir until melted.  pour this
liquid into the masa harina and blend well with a fork or pastry
blender. knead on a lightly floured board until smooth, about 5
minutes.

divide the dough into 12 pieces and roll each into a ball about 1
inch in diameter.  roll out the dough between pieces of parchment or
waxed paper until the dough is paper thin and about 6 inches in
diameter.

heat a large cast iron or other heavy skillet over high heat until
very hot.  remove a circle of dough from the paper and place it in
the hot skillet.  cook until brown on one side, about 30 seconds,
turn and brown the other side.  keep warm in a cloth towel. repeat
until all the tortillas are made.

tortilla chips

cut tortilla into 8 wedges; set aside.  pour oil into a heavy
saucepan or skillet to a depth of 1 inch over medium high heat, heat
to a temperature of 375 degrees f, or until a tortilla chips browns
in 60 seconds.

drop the tortilla wedges into the hot oil in batches and cook for 1
to 2 minutes, or until they turn golden. drain on paper towels. let
cool and store in airtight containers.

source:  southwest cookbook

yield: 12 tortillas


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

