
crumpets & muffins (english)

breads

1 quart water
2 oz yeast
1/2 lb potatoes
1/2 oz salt
1  flour

muffins: wash, peel & boil the potatoes, rub through a colander, add
the water (just warm enough to bear the hand in it without
discomfort); then dissolve the yeast & salt in it, & stir in
sufficient flour to make a moist paste. beat it well in a deep bowl &
then clear off the paste from the hands; cover over with a clean
cloth & leave it to rise in a warm place. when it has well risen, &
is light & spongy, turn it out on the table, dredge over with flour,
& then divide it off into pieces about 3 oz in weight, roll them up
into round shapes, & set them on a wooden tray, well dusted with
flour to prove. when light enough, see that the hot plate is hot, &
then carefully transfer the muffins from the tray, one at a time,
using a thin tin slice for the purpose, taking particular care not to
knock out the proof or the muffins will be spoilt. when they have
been properly cooked on one side, turn over with the slice & cook the
other side. when the muffins are done, brush off the flour, & lay
them on a clean clothe or sieve to cool. to toast them, divide the
edge of the muffin all round by pulling it open to the depth of about
1 inch with the fingers. put it on a toasting fork & hold it before a
clear fire till one side is nicely browned, but not burnt; turn, &
toast it on the other. do not toast them too quickly, otherwise the
middle of the muffin will not be warmed through. when done, divide
them by pulling them open; butter them slighlty on both sides, put
them together again, & cut them into halves. pile on a hot dish &
send quickly to table. time: 25 to 30 minutes to bake. sufficient for
about 2 dozen muffins. crumpets: proceed exactly the same as directed
for muffins (above), but stir in only half the quantity of flour used
for them, so that the mixture is more of a batter than a sponge.
cover over, & leave for 1/2 an hour. at the end of that time take a
large wooden spoon & well beat up the batter, leave in the spoon,
cover over, & leave for another 1/2 an hour. then give the batter
another good beat up. this process must be repeated 3 times with the
intervals. when completed, see that the hot plate is quite hot, lay
out some crumpet rings rubbed over inside with a little clean lard on
a baking tin, & pour in sufficient of the batter to make the
crumpets. when cooked on one side, turn over with a palette-knife, &
when done take off on to a clean cloth to cool. muffins & crumpets
should always be served on separate dishes, & both toasted & served
as quickly as possible. time: about 20 minutes to cook. sufficient
for about 2 dozen crumpets.

yield: 6 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

