
czech dumplings

breads

1 pkg yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup milk; scalded and cooled
1 cup milk; warm
1  egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 1/2 cup flour
3  slices white bread; cubed

there are a number of different kinds of dumplings in the czech
cuisine, but if you are serving a pork roast with sauerkraut, i
recommend bread dumplings. make sure you use the drippings from the
roast to make gravy for these! mix the first three ingredients, let
stand for 10 minutes. mix the warm milk, egg, salt, yeast mixture and
flour. add the bread cubes. knead the resulting dough just as you
would when making bread. let the dough rest in a warm place to rise.
it should double in about 2 hours. knead again; divide into 3 long
rolls, each about 1 1/2 " thick. let rise another 1/2 hour. drop the
rolls of dough, one at a time, into a large kettle of boiling water.
boil gently for about 15 minutes. remove with slotted spoons and
place on a buttered platter. keep warm. when ready to serve, slice
the rolls into individual slices by using a length of thread. loop it
around one dumpling and pull tight to slice off a piece about 2"
thick. (this is the fun part! you can get pretty good at this
garrotting if you practice!!) you should end up with about 2 dozen
slices. my cookbook says, "these freeze well - steam before serving."
(i've never tried that!!) if you would prefer potato dumplings to
these, just say so. the only problem with them is they sometimes get
a bit "slimy" or mushy. i like them that way, but they don't look as
presentable as the bread dumplings.
ken \ ca

yield: 1 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

