
bagels (koss)

breads

4 1/2 cup flour
2 pkg active dry yeast
1 1/2 cup warm water -- 110-115 f
3 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar

in mixer bowl combine 1 1/2 cups flour and the yeast. combine warm
water, 3 tbls. sugar and the salt. pour over flour mixture. beat at
low speed for 30 seconds, scraping sides of bowl constantly. beat 3
minutes on high speed.

stir in as much of the remaining flour as you can mix in with a
spoon. turn out onto lightly floured surface. knead in enough
remaining flour to make a moderately stiff dough. continue kneading
until smooth and elastic, 6 - 8 minutes. cover; let dough rest 10-15
minutes.

cut into 12 portions; shape into smooth balls. punch a hole in the
center of each with a floured finger. pull gently to enlarge hole to
1 1/2 to 2 inches. place on a greased baking sheet. cover; let rise
20 minutes. broil 5 inches from heat for 1 1/2 - 2 minutes on each
side. tops should not brown.

heat 1 gallon water and 1 tablespoon sugar to boiling; reduce heat.
cook bagels, 4 or 5 at a time, for 7 minutes, turning once. drain.
place on greased baking sheet. bake in 375 degree oven 25 - 30
minutes.

posted by "r. s. koss" <rskoss@bronze.coil.com> to the fatfree digest
[volume 14 issue 6] jan. 6, 1995.

individual recipes copyrighted by originator. fatfree recipe
collections copyrighted by michelle dick 1995. formatted by sue smith,
suesmith9@aol.com using mmconv. archived through kindness of karen
mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80

yield: 12 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

