
basic muffins & variations

breads

1 3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1  egg
3/4 cup milk
1/3 cup cooking oil

in a large mixing bowl stir together the flouw, sugar, baking powder
and salt.  make a well in the center. combine egg, milk and oil. add
egg mixture all at once to flour mixture. stir just till moistened;
batter should be lumpy.  grease muffin cups or line with paper bake
cups; fill 2/3 full.  bake in a 400 degree oven for 20 to 25 minutes
or till golden. remove from pans; serve warm. makes 10 to 12 muffins.
variations add: blueberry: combine 3/4 cup fresh or frozen
blueberries, thawed, and 2 tablespoons additional sugar.
apple-raisin: stir in 1/2 teaspoon groun cinnamon into flour mixture.
fold 1 cup copped peeled apple and 1/4 cup raisins into batter.
jelly: spoon 1 teaspoon jelly atop batter in each muffin cup before
baking. date-nut: fold 2/3 cup coursely chopped pitted dates and 1/3
cup walnuts or pecans to batter. cheese: stir 1/2 cup shedded cheddar
or swiss cheese into flour mixture. banana-nut: decrease milk to 1/2
cup. stir 1 cup mashed banana and 1/2 cup chopped nuts into batter.
pumpkin: increase sugar to 1/3 cup. add 1/2 cup canned pumpkin to egg
mixture. stir 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon and 1/2 teaspoon ground
nutmeg into flour mixture. stir 1/2 cup raisins into batter.
cranberry: coursely chop 1 cup fresh or frozen cranberries and
combine with 1/4 cup additional sugar. fold into batter.

yield: 8 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

