
cheryl's sourdough starter

breads, sourdough

      ----cheryl gavard----
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar salt
2 cup flour
1 tablespoon white vinegar

mix all together, and let sit on your counter for 3 days with a loose
fitting lid or cover with saran wrap. on the third day stir it well.
let sit for two more days. some recipes call for adding 1 packet of
yeast that has been dissolved in 1/2 cup warm water on the fifth day.
it sort of speeds up the process of it getting sour. if you do add
it, then let the mix sit out for at least one more week, stirring it
every day. if you don't add it, you still have to let it sit out a
week, but, it may not be as sour the first few times you use it.
store starter in the fridge. it will separate, into two parts, a
darkish liquid on the top ~ this is normal. before you use it, stir
the liquid back into the bottom part. always use a wooden or plastic
spoon. never use metal. always use glass, ceramic or plastic
bowls...never metal. to use:   pour out the amount needed. for 1/2
cup starter used, feed with 1/2 cup flour and 1 teaspoon sugar. stir
in well. don't worry about flour lumps etc. let sit out on the
counter with a loose lid overnight! stir, return to refrigerator.
(according to cheryl & connie, you have to wait at least 3 or 4 days
between used!) if you don't use within a week, feed starter 1
teaspoon sugar, stir in and return to fridge. it's not that
hard...and of all the starters i've used, this one so far has been
the best. thanks cheryl and connie! repost by sallie kratz nxmb21a
4/24/93 food forum mm format by norma wrenn npxr56b

yield: 1 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

