
croissants

breads

1 cup milk
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 pkg dry yeast
1/4 cup warm water
2 1/2 cup unbleached flour
1 cup butter; cold

combine milk, first amount of butter, sugar and salt in a small pot
and bring to a boil over high heat. immediately remove from the heat
and let stand to room temperature. in the meantime, dissolve the
yeast in the water and add it to the milk. place the liquid in a
mixer and add the flour. using the dough hook, mix until the dough is
elastic. it will be sticky. place in a bowl, cover and let rise until
double in bulk, about 1 1/2 hours. place in refrigerator and chill
for 30 minutes. meanwhile, soften the remaining cold butter by
pounding with a rolling pin. roll the dough on a floured board to
form a 1/4-inch thick rectangle. spread the butter over 2/3 of the
rectangle closest to you. fold the unbuttered third over the center
third. then fold the bottom 1/3 over the doubled portion. swing the
dough around a quarter turn, that is, bring east to south. roll it
again into a 1/4-inch thick oblong. fold again in thirds. cover the
dough and place in the refrigerator for 2 hours. when the dough is
chilled, remove from the refrigerator and repeat the folding and
turning twice more. then roll the dough to 1/4-inch thickness again.
cut the dough into 3-inch squares and cut the squares on the bias to
form two triangles. roll each triangle beginning with the wide side,
then shape the rolls into crescents. chill for 30 minutes in the
refrigerator before baking. preheat oven to 400f. bake for 10
minutes. reduce heat to 350f and continue to bake another 15 minutes.

michael roberts - prodigy guest chefs cookbook

yield: 12 servings


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

