
dough for thick crust or pan pizza

breads

2 teaspoon yeast
1 1/2 cup warm water
4 cup flour
2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup olive oil
1 teaspoon parmesan, grated fine
1  cornmeal

note: the differences between a pan pizza and a thick crust pizza are
the thickness of the crust and the fact that a pan pizza is baked in
a pizza pan with deep (2-2 1/2") sides and a thick crust pizza is not
baked in a pan but on stone or a tile in the oven (and then put in a
pan to serve).

preheat the oven to 425 degrees (if planning a thick crust pizza,
place the sto tile in the oven to heat). dissolve the yeast in the
warm (105 degrees-115 degrees) water. wait until the mixture foams
(about 5 minutes). combine the flour and yeast in a bowl. add the
yeast mixture. add the olive oil. add the parmesan. mix thoroughly.
turn the dough out onto a well floured board. knead until smooth
(about 10 minutes). place the dough in a greased bowl and let rise
until doubled (about 1 hour). punch the dough down and roll out on a
well floured board. roll to 3/4" thickness for thick crust pizza or
2" thickness for a pan pizza. brush the dough generously with olive
oil. thick crust: lightly oil a (14") pizza pan. sprinkle some
cornmeal onto the pan. form the dough into a pie using the pan. place
the sauce(s) and topping(s) on the dough, leaving the outer 1/2"
bare. remove the pie from the pizza pan. use a paddle to place the
dough on the stone. pan pizza: lightly oil the pizza pan. sprinkle
some cornmeal in the bottom of the pan. press the dough into place in
the pan, pressing it down into the bottom and up the sides of the
pan. add the sauce(s), seasoning(s) and topping(s), leaving the
outermost 1/2" bare place in the preheated oven. both: bake until the
cheese is bubbly and the crust is golden. use a paddle to remove the
thick crust pizza from the oven and place it on a serving pan. use
hot pads to remove the pan pizza from the oven. serve.

yield: 1 pizza


** exported from now you're cooking! v5.71 **

